welcome to the program we begin with
breaking news coming out of Gaza where
an Israeli strike has killed more than
40 people and injured dozens of others
the attack took place near the alaa
hospital in the central part of the
strip more than 150 others have been
killed in the past 24 hours these are
the latest pictures coming from the
region and this is all despite Israel
claiming it's scaling down its military
operation of course seen of Devastation
there just outside of the hospital uh
Rescuers getting there as quickly as
they possibly can to take the injured
two nearby hospitals uh it's in
incredibly confusing situation obviously
and we'll try and uh get more to you uh
as uh we can I think we can now join our
correspondent TK Abu aom Tark I hope you
can hear me we're showing our viewers
shots of the most recent strike very
close to the alaxa Mosk ala Hospital
pardon me uh in Gaza the injured um
being taken to hospital those buried
under the rubble are trying to be
rescued it's a pretty desperate
situation that we're seeing here what
more information are you getting about
this particular
incident yes uh the Israeli military in
fact in the past hour had targeted a
residential building that is only a few
meters away from alaka hospital that is
the main Central Hospital still
operating in the middle governate of
Gaza strip were thousands of
Palestinians being killed and injured in
that building as it was a center for
evacu where different families were
taking shelter inside uh alongside with
their relatives uh to be away from the
Israeli buming and this area had been
multiply targeted throughout the
military copters drones in that part of
Gaza strep until this very moment the uh
evacuation process to pull the victims
from under the rles and the India people
continue as it was a multiple store
building while was hit and the in fact
the al- AKA hospital had been widely uh
threatened to to different kinds of
Israeli fires uh since the expansion of
the military operations uh in the middle
goates of the territory now people are
still right now uh trying to dig to
search between the rles about the
victims and the injured people and this
is one of the uh main bloody attacks
that had been carried out since the
early hours of today's morning and we
have been reporting in the past a few
days that we are saying and keep trying
to uh inform the the the world about
that the these areas are witnessing mass
destruction by the military as they are
destroying residential houses that is
full of evacu that are full of evacuees
and alongside with the key
infrastructure for residents that we
have been seeing today a number of
videos emerged for the gates and the
entrance of anarat refugee camp in the
same governate that had been also
destroyed alongside with the main
Lincoln Road which also imposed more
threats and challenges es for ambulances
to evacuate victims and to reach the
locations of targeting of course T we're
seeing these pictures the latest
pictures uh from outside the hospital uh
as local residents try to come to the
aid of those that are caught in the
middle of this latest Israeli strike
over the last few days we also know that
medical staff within the hospital from
many Aid agencies have had to evacuate
because either they haven't got the
supplies to help people or because of
safety concerns they too have had to
leave it leaves the medical
infrastructure desperately fragile in
terms of personnel to be able to deal
with the
[Music]
injuries yes uh literally we can say
that the medical situation in Gaza still
operating hospitals uh is completely uh
dramatic and very dire very limited
medical supplies being allowed to enter
the territory uh since uh the last
couple of days and also the hospitals
that still operating in the areas of
battles and confrontations including Al
AKA hospital and nasar Hospital inhan
unas have been also exposed to different
kinds of military attacks on the
vicinities of such areas also we are
talking about these hospitals are
overwhelmed with patients and injured
people they are they are facing more PR
that had been imposed it due to the
increasing number of injuries that are
arriving to the hospitals due to the
expansion of the military attacks ACR
Gaza and we personally we have been
moving in in between these hospitals
throughout the last couple of days and
we have been seeing how medical staffs
and workers are facing such an Ence
pressure just to keep operating despite
all the difficulties in terms of the
affordability of the medical supplies
some uh residents are forced to go to
search for the treatment in the clinics
just to to the to the due to the fact
that the hospitals in these areas are
receiving a very limited amount of
medical supplies that cannot match the
level of medical responsibility and also
the medical care that that patients and
injured people on a very desperate need
for and today the director of the
international Committee of the rep Crest
had stated that the Gaza hospitals are
facing very increased rate of of absence
of medical supplies as long as they not
able to carry out Advanced surgeries for
injured people due to the absence of
Necessities in terms of the
affordability of the medical drugs and
the medical equipments that could be
suitable for carrying such operations so
we can say that as the expansion of the
military attacks on Gaza Strip continues
the medical sector in the territory is
getting much more worse day by day as
there are still uh very few numbers of
hospitals are still operating after 30
hospitals and at least 100 50 Medical
Health Centers have become out of
service due to the outscale uh
destruction and attacks that had been
carried out against since October the
7th TK our colleague hany Mahmud earlier
in the day had also been to what was a
makeshift uh medical facility a tented
medical facility that was uh apparently
being operated in a safe area its
generators to the side of that hospital
were targeted by the Israelis Also
earlier in the day making the hospital
inoperative It's a combination of these
popup hospitals that are trying to help
with the medical uh problems that uh
Palestinians face when there aren't any
hospitals working and then the worry of
attacks as
well yes uh this is uh definitely uh the
reality for such hospitals that had been
recently set up on different areas in
the South just to help the Palestinian
medical sector to be able to keep
providing medical treatment for
thousands of Palestinians who have been
injured and they are also day by day
full as injured uh and we can say that
we are talking about Qatari hospitals
amirati hospitals and American Hospital
that recently had been established
inside Gaza but these areas and these uh
hospitals have been set up in areas that
also witness expansion of the mil
attacks by the Israeli forces and which
also will put them on the scale of risk
as they won't be able to fully and
peacefully keep providing medical
treatment for Palestinians being injured
and this is a part of what the medical
sector inside Gaza have been going
through for more than 9 F days of
fighting inside the territory but what
we expect more that these hospitals must
be protected at least but what we can
see is that more more increase of of
military attacks across Gaza Strip as
they are as they are trying to embose
the ultimate pressure on Palestinians to
uh to keep fleeing more to R now this
area we can say that now has been very
overcrowded with residents as Medical
Teams are miraculously trying to keep
providing a treatment for hundreds of
thousands of Palestinians that are di
that are varied between being patients
and injured people and also a part of
the spread of infectuous disease special
among children and women and this is uh
systematically happened by the Israeli
forces which also exacerbate the medical
conditions inside Gaza T abum thank you
for those of you joining us here on Al
jazer English the latest pictures you
can see now full frame on your TV
screens are coming from darl Balor and
just outside of Al AXA hospital where a
short time ago an Israeli strike seems
to have hit a residential area and a
commercial area you can see people
running trying to get to the site to try
and help those that might be injured
other people are running away uh the
injured are being taken either locally
to the Alexa Hospital which is as TK
said already uh overflowing with the
injured Let's cross over to alzer's
hindel kudri she was near uh the site of
that particular uh attack near the alaxa
hospital hind if you can hear me just
talk us through what we know happened
near
you so an explosion erupted and it was
not only one air strike there were three
Israeli air strikes on a residential
building in front of the entrance of ala
hospital it's one of the gates of ala
hospitals where there were a lot of
ambulances a lot of people who were
seeking uh Refuge with tents and not
only that with people in the streets so
it's a very busy street and people were
terrified and it was very horrifying and
all I remembered was when Al ala
Hospital entrance was uh targeted in the
past couple of months there were dozens
of killing dozens of injured and and and
the hospital was crowded it was a
chaos you can't imagine the amount of
blood I saw uh the amount of people that
need help but there the hospital has
been working on a very low capacity
after a of people evacuated and the
medical personnel as we reported in the
past couple of days so can I just jump
in there just for a second can I just
clarify that it is a residential
building close to the hospital that's
been hit and the de brief from that
residential building has fallen down
into the area close to the hospital
injuring
people it's like the seet like it's the
seet of the hospital and there was the
FF guy who sell FF and he's very famous
on the street who he was selling FF
every single day was killed by a
sharpman and we saw his blood covering
the FF ingredients on the floor and on
on the walls it was it it I I literally
can't describe what I saw today it was
it has been a very big loss for a lot of
people all I saw is is people trying to
rescue other people because as we said
that the medic te were were not enough
for all and the huge amount of injuries
I saw babies being injured men women a
lot of people because it's a normal
street and it's a very busy street where
it's it's it's an Hospital's entrance
and we know how Hospital entrances are
you have shops you have people H
Crossing by every second and the people
right now are are trying their best to
see if there's someone under the rubble
stck and they're trying to help the
ambulances and the medical team uh to
transfer the people who have been
affected by the air strikes into the
hospital but I went into the hospital
and I went into the emergency department
it's a complete chaos in terms of in
terms of the facilities available to
those arriving in accident and
emergency what sort of help are they
able to get I mean obviously we've been
talking about the lack of medical
facilities and the lack of medical St St
how how under pressure is the hospital
right now it's a chaos you can't imagine
there's a lot of nursing teams and a lot
of volunteers but the the main doctors
are not are absent so can you imagine
doctor like nurses and volunteers trying
to help people with severe injuries uh
the i unit was was pared with people uh
the people who have been um affected by
their lower limbs were were were were
cousins and and and the amount of people
who were trying also to clean the amount
of blood because it was literally a
river of blood on on on the ground uh of
of the
hospital seeing this it was not the
first time I saw this and I witnessed
this in ALA hospital and it's the exact
exact same thing but the only different
thing is the people killed and injured
are different people and of course just
stay with us for a moment h I'm just
going to describe the pictures that
we're seeing at the moment we're seeing
individuals carrying the injured on any
sort of either door or or taring or even
with their bare hands to uh the
emergency accident emergency center of
the hospital there are wrecked cars with
concrete on them there are people uh
within the debris of that Main High
Street that you've described outside of
alaxa Hospital digging through the
concrete and the rubble to try to get to
those that may have survived or those
that are
injured uh desperate scenes as you've
described them but these are scenes that
are happening every day we just don't
always get to see them so quickly after
an Israeli strike and the panic and the
worry that people have when these
strikes happen there is fear that there
could be another
strike exactly we're talking about a
hospital that not only is a hospital but
it's also a house in a place where
hundreds of people seek Refuge yes a lot
of people evacuated in the past couple
of days after the quad cter targeted the
ICU and the maternity areas but there
are still thousands of people who are
still seeking shelter in the hospital
with their tents uh a couple of steps
away from where H uh the target was and
we're talking about theal building where
it has a lot of blocks and and cement
blocks where uh literally flew on the
sides of the hospital we also saw
ambulances being damaged severely
damaged and we know that there are lot
of not a lot of ambulances in the Gaza
Strip right now especially after
dividing the north from the south um
it's the Mount of Destruction is is
massive like I have been asking the
palestin Ministry of Health doctors can
you please inform me how many uh people
have been killed or injured they were
like we could not even count them and
this is an indicator of how much people
were injured I remember a little girl
telling me I saw people chattered with
blood I saw these people and I saw I saw
people were like normal people how would
a three-year-old girl
describe what happened all she all she
said was I saw people scattered into
pieces where a threee a a four or five
year old girl saw
people with like their bodies and and
and I still don't forget the blood of
the FF boy that everyone is famous and
everyone knows him okay hind we will
leave it for the moment uh thanks very
much uh for that those of you joining us
here on alaz of course these are the
latest pictures coming from outside of
the AL AXA Hospital in balala where the
Israelis have hit a Target in the middle
of the road it seems as you can see from
those pictures complete chaos as uh
local residents tried to get the injured
to hospital let's bring in Mai director
of Gulf studies at the center uh
or at the center there at catle
University good to have you with us
sorry I'm getting Tongue Tied because we
rarely get to see pictures like this
it's absolutely shocking um so soon
after an Israeli targeted hit um just
want to get your impression of what
you're seeing cuz I'm horrified we have
um uh Israel have already committed more
than uh 450 massacres and this attack
maybe uh be number is more than 1,000 of
those attacks maybe this one of those
attacks we saw in the spots after maybe
a few seconds but with the media
limitation he created in Gaza with the
the target policy that Israeli is is
following on basically doing everything
uh far away from cameras and microphones
and the number of journalists who have
already killed around more 115 that
tells you that how much Israelis are
worried of people seeing such an images
and and pictures of course um what is
what's ironic about this this happens
less than 24 hours after blinkin was
saying that Israel will be more careful
when they attack about the civilians and
that was today until now uh more than 40
people were killed in Gaza yesterday 126
people of Civilian were killed and the
question is uh how much they want to
kill so Israel is doing so-called smart
operation or sergic operations that's a
big question mark this happens
unfortunately under the eye of
International Community including the
United States and such pictures will be
beamed across the world but also another
statement we have to remember that the
Israelis have used from day one is they
have a special military operation
against Hamas they will have to justify
where Hamas were when struck this
location with all of these civilians all
of these casualties all of these women
and children people covered in dust
people injured people under the rubble
they are going to have to tell the world
where Hamas were here right here right
now they have to do it but unfortunately
I have to say they used to lie and they
insist on lying I mean just before I
join you I was reading a statement for
one of the uh member of the keset where
he was talking about um basically
targeting more civilians and actually uh
killing more of the civilian in Gaza to
sorry destroying more houses of gazans
and killing more to make sure that
Israeli are achieving their goals so if
this is the way how they think of people
in Gaza I would be I would not be
surprised of seeing this kind of attack
and more attacks on civilians they have
to justify they have to explain this but
so let's remember there's no
accountability
to tomorrow there will be discussion
about it do they look at these images
will they look at how many civilians
were killed International Community if
there is remaining morals or ethics they
should look at what happened in gazda
seriously after 97
days ma zi thanks for joining us we'll
get more on this as the hours progress